---
description: >-
  In the Filecoin blockchain, network consensus is achieved using the Expected
  Consensus (EC) algorithm, a secret, fair, and verifiable consensus protocol
  used by the network to agree on the chain state
---

# Consensus

## Overview

In the Filecoin blockchain, network _consensus_ is achieved using the Expected Consensus (EC) algorithm, a probabilistic, _Byzantine fault-tolerant_ consensus protocol. At a high level, EC achieves consensus by running a secret, fair, and verifiable _leader election_ at every [epoch](../../reference/general/glossary.md#epoch) where a set number of participants may become eligible to submit a block to the chain based on fair and verifiable criteria.

## Properties

Expected Consensus (EC) has the following properties:

* Each epoch has potentially multiple elected leaders who may propose a block.
* A winner is selected randomly from a set of network participants weighted according to the respective storage power they contribute to the Filecoin network.
* All blocks proposed are grouped together in a _tipset_, from which the final chain is selected.
* A block producer can be verified by any participant in the network.
* The identity of a block producer is anonymous until they release their block to the network.

## Steps

In summary, EC involves the following steps at each _epoch_:

1. A storage provider checks to see if they are elected to propose a block by generating an _election proof_.
2. Zero, one, or multiple storage providers may be elected to propose a block. This does not mean that an elected participant is guaranteed to be able to submit a block. In the case where:
   * **No storage providers are elected to propose a block in a given epoch**; a new election is run in the next epoch to ensure that the network remains live.
   * **One or more storage providers are elected to propose a block in a given epoch**; each must generate a _WinningPoSt proof-of-storage_ to be eligible to actually submit a block.
3. Each potential block producer elected generates a storage proof using [WinningPoSt](../../reference/general/glossary.md#winning-proof-of-spacetime-winningpost) for a randomly selected [_sector_](../../reference/general/glossary.md#sector) within in short window of time. Potential block producers that fail this step are not eligible to produce a block. In this step, the following could occur:
   * **All potential block producers fail WinningPoSt**, in which case EC returns to step 1 (described above).
   * **One or more potential block producers pass WinningPoSt**, which means they are eligible to submit that block to the epochs tipset.
4. Blocks generated by block producers are grouped into a [tipset](../../reference/general/glossary.md#tipset).
5. The tipset that reflects the biggest amount of committed storage on the network is selected.
6. Using the selected tipset, the chain state is propagated.
7. EC returns to step 1 in the next epoch.



&#x20;[Was this page helpful?](https://airtable.com/apppq4inOe4gmSSlk/pagoZHC2i1iqgphgl/form?prefill\_Page%20URL=https%3A%2F%2Fapp.gitbook.com%2Fo%2FNNmD4UvLc26b1TmEYgzE%2Fs%2FxNWFG7bQkjLkl5BBGjbD%2F)&#x20;
