---
title: "Address types"
description: "Everything you need to know about how different types of Filecoin addresses and when they will be used."
lead: "In the Filecoin network, an _address_ is a unique identifier that refers to an actor in the Filecoin state. All actors in Filecoin have a corresponding address which varies from the different usages."
draft: false
images: []
type: docs
menu:
  smart-contracts:
    parent: "smart-contracts-filecoin-evm-runtime"
    identifier: "address-types-183b68cf3fb42bf260ccfa42d899590d"
weight: 100
toc: true
---

Filecoin has 5 address classes and actors tend to have *multiple* addresses. Furthermore, each address class has its own rules for converting between binary and text.

The goal of using different types of addresses is to provide a robust address format that is scalable, easy to use, and reliable. These addresses encode information including：

- Network prefix: indicates the network the actor belongs to.
- Protocol indicator: identify the type and version of this address.
- Payload: identify the actor according to the protocol.
- Checksum: validate the address.

Filecoin addresses can be represented either as raw bytes or a string. Raw bytes format will be always used on-chain. An address can be also encoded to a string including a checksum and network prefix. The string format will never appear on-chain, and is only for human-readable purposes.

Filecoin address can be broken down like this:

| Network prefix | Protocol indicator                  | Payload | Checksum |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `f` / `t`      | 1 byte: `0` / `1` / `2` / `3` / `4` | _n_ bytes | 4 bytes  |

The network prefix is prepended to an address when encoding to a string. The network prefix indicates which network an address belongs to. Network prefixes never appear on-chain, and are only used when encoding an address to a human-readable format.

- `f` - addresses on the  Filecoin mainnet.
- `t` - addresses used on any Filecoin testnet.

The protocol indicator identifies the address type which describes how a method should interpret the information in the `payload` field of an address.

- `0`: An ID address.
- `1`: A wallet address generated from a secp256k public key.
- `2`: An actor address.
- `3`: A wallet address generated from BLS public key.
- `4`: A delegated address for user-defined foreign actors:
    - `410`: Ethereum compatible address space managed by the Ethereum Address Manager (EAM).

Each address type is described below.

## ID addresses

All addresses have a short integer assigned to them by `InitActor` sequentially, a unique actor that can create _new_ actors. The integer that gets assigned is the ID of that actor. An _ID address_ is an actor's ID prefixed with the network identifier and the protocol indicator. Therefore, any address in the Filecoin network has a unique ID address assigned to it.

The mainnet burn account ID address is `f099` and is structured as follows:

```plaintext
  Protocol Indicator
  |
f 0 9 9
|    |
|    Actor ID
|
Network identifier
```

## Actor addresses

Addressed representing an actor deployed through the init actor in the Filecoin network. It provides a way to create robust addresses for actors not associated with a public key. They are generated by taking a `sha256` hash of the output of the account creation.

Actor addresses are often referred to by their shorthand, `2`.

## Wallet addresses

Addresses managed directly by users, like accounts, are derived from a public-private key pair. If you have access to a private key, you can sign messages sent from that wallet address. The public key is used to derive an address for the actor. Public key addresses are referred to as _robust addresses_ as they do not depend on the Filecoin chain state.

Public key addresses allow devices, like hardware wallets, to derive a valid Filecoin address for your account using just the public key. The device doesn't need to ask a remote node what your ID address is. Public key addresses provide a concise, safe, human-readable way to reference actors before the chain state is final. ID addresses are a space-efficient way to identify actors in the Filecoin chain state, where every byte matters.

Filecoin supports two types of public key addresses:

- [secp256k1 addresses](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Secp256k1) that begin with the protocol indicator as `1`.
- [BLS addresses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BLS_digital_signature) that begin with the protocol indicator as `3`.

`t1iandfn6d...ddboqxbhoeva` - a testnet wallet address generated using secp256k1.
`t3vxj34sbdr3...road7cbygq` - a testnet wallet address generated using BLS.

## Delegated addresses

Filecoin supports extensible, user-defined actor addresses through the `4` address class, introduced in [fip-0048](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0048.md). The `4` address class provides the following benefits to the network:

- Implement foreign addressing systems in Filecoin.
- A predictable addressing scheme to support interactions with addresses that do not yet exist on-chain.
- User-defined, programable addressing systems without extensive changes and network upgrades.

For example, a testnet delegated address using the Ethereum Addressing System is structured as follows:

```plaintext
   Address manager actor ID
   |
t 410 iandfn6d...
|     |
|     New actor ID
|
Network identifier
```

The _address manager actor ID_ is the actor ID of the address manager actor which creates new actors and assigns a `4` address to the new actor. This leverages the extensible feature of the `f4` address class.

The _new actor ID_ is the arbitrary actor ID chosen by that actor.  

### Restrictions

Currently, per [fip-0048](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0048.md), `f4` addresses may only be assigned by and in association with specific, built-in actors called _address managers_. This restriction will likely be relaxed once users are able to deploy custom WebAssembly actors.

This address type plays a very essential role in supporting the EVM-compatible FVM. It allows the Filecoin network to be able to recognize the foreign address and validate and execute the transactions sent and signed by the supported foreign addresses.

The supported foreign addresses can be cast as `f4/t4` addresses, and vice-versa.  But not with `f1/t1` or `f3/t3` addresses.

### Ethereum Address Manager

Ethereum Address Manager (EAM) is a built-in actor which manages the Ethereum address space, anchored at the `410` address namespace. It acts like an EVM smart contract factory, offering methods to create and assign the `f410/t410` Filecoin address to Ethereum address.

The subaddress of an `f410/t410` address is the original Ethereum address. Ethereum addresses can be cast as `f410` addresses, and vice-versa. The `f410/t410` address will be used for the Ethereum-compatible FVM (FEVM) development tools and applications built on FEVM.

#### Example

```plaintext
# An Ethereum wallet address.
0xd388ab098ed3e84c0d808776440b48f685198498

# The corresponding Filecoin address on hyperspace.
t410f2oekwcmo2pueydmaq53eic2i62crtbeyuzx2gmy
```

If you have an Ethereum wallet address starting with `0x` , then the Ethereum Address Manager (EAM) will assign a corresponding `t410` Filecoin address to it. If you send 10 TFIL to `0xd388ab098ed3e84c0d808776440b48f685198498` address using a wallet like MetaMask, you will receive 10 TFIL to your `t410f2oekwcmo2pueydmaq53eic2i62crtbeyuzx2gmy` address on Filecoin Hyperspace testnet.

```plaintext
# A Filecoin smart contract address.
t410fl5qeigmkcytz7b6sqoojtcetqwf37dm4zv4aijq

# The corresponding Ethereum smart contract address.
0x5f6044198a16279f87d2839c998893858bbf8d9c
```

Again, assume you have deployed a solidity smart contract on Filecoin Hyperspace. Then you will receive a smart contract address starting with `t410`. EAM will also assign a corresponding `0x` Ethereum address to it.

When you try to invoke this smart contract on Filecoin using Ethereum toolings, you need to use your `0x5f6044198a16279f87d2839c998893858bbf8d9c` smart contract address.

## Converting from a Filecoin address to a 0x-style address

FEVM introduces support for `0x` (Ethereum) style addresses. Filecoin addresses starting with either `f0` or `f410f` can be converted to the `0x` format as follows:

- Addresses starting with `f0` address can be converted to the `0x` format by
  - Extracting the `actor_id` (e.g., the `1234` in `f01234`).
  - Hex encode with a `0xff` prefix: `sprintf("0xff0000000000000000000000%016x", actor_id)`.

- Addresses starting with `f410f` address can be converted to the `0x`  format by:

  - Removing the `f410f` prefix.

  - Decoding the remainder as base32 (RFC 4648 without padding).

  - Trim off the last 4 bytes. This is a *checksum* that can optionally be verified, but that's beyond the scope of this documentation.

  - Assert that the remaining address is 20 bytes long.

  - Hex-encode: `sprintf(0x%040x", actor_id)`.

However, remember that `f0` addresses are *not* re-org stable and should not be used until the chain has settled.
