---
title: "Addresses"
description: "A Filecoin address is an identifier that refers to an actor in the Filecoin state."
lead: "A Filecoin address is an identifier that refers to an actor in the Filecoin state. All actors (miner actors, the storage market actor, account actors) have an address. This address encodes information about the network to which an actor belongs, the specific type of address encoding, the address payload itself, and a checksum. The goal of this format is to provide a robust address format that is both easy to use and resistant to errors."
draft: false
images: []
type: docs
menu:
  basics:
    parent: "basics-the-blockchain"
    identifier: "addresses-5b9fc6e83faf9e62ed663a916d333935"
weight: 100
toc: true
aliases:
    - "/fvm/concepts/accounts-and-assets/"
    - "/developers/smart-contracts/concepts/accounts-and-assets/"
---

All Filecoin addresses begin with an `f` to indicate the network (Filecoin), followed by any of the address prefix numbers (`0`, `1`, `2`, `3`, `4`) to indicate the address type. There are five address types:

| Address prefix | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `0` | An ID address. |
| `1` | A [SECP256K1](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Secp256k1) public key address. |
| `2` | An actor address. |
| `3` | A [BLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BLS_digital_signature) public key address. |
| `4` | Extensible, user-defined actor addresses. |

Each of the address types is described below.

## Actor IDs

All actors have a short integer assigned to them by `InitActor`, a unique actor that can create _new_ actors. This integer that gets assigned is the ID of that actor. An _ID address_ is an actor's ID prefixed with the network identifier and the address type.

Actor ID addresses are not _robust_, in the sense that they _do_ depend on chain state, and are defined on-chain by the `InitActor`. Additionally, actor IDs can change for a brief time after creation if the same ID is assigned to different actors on different forks. Actor ID addresses are similar to monotonically increasing numeric primary keys in a relational database. So, when a chain reorganization occurs (similar to a rollback in a SQL database), you can refer to the same ID for different rows. The [expected consensus](https://spec.filecoin.io/#section-algorithms.expected_consensus) algorithm will resolve the conflict. Once the state that defines a new ID reaches finality, no changes can occur, and the ID is bound to that actor forever.

For example, the mainnet burn account ID address, `f099`, is structured as follows:

```plaintext
  Address type
  |
f 0 9 9
|    |
|    Actor ID
|
Network identifier
```

ID addresses are often referred to by their shorthand `f0`.

## Public keys

Actors managed directly by users, like accounts, are derived from a public-private key pair. If you have access to a private key, you can sign messages sent from that actor. The public key is used to derive an address for the actor. Public key addresses are referred to as _robust addresses_ as they do not depend on the Filecoin chain state.

Public key addresses allow devices, like hardware wallets, to derive a valid Filecoin address for your account using just the public key. The device doesn't need to ask a remote node what your ID address is. Public key addresses provide a concise, safe, human-readable way to reference actors before the chain state is final. ID addresses are used as a space-efficient way to identify actors in the Filecoin chain state, where every byte matters.

Filecoin supports two types of public key addresses:

- [`secp256k1` addresses](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Secp256k1) that begin with the prefix `f1`.
- [BLS addresses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BLS_digital_signature) that begin with the prefix `f3`.

For BLS addresses, Filecoin uses `curve bls12-381` for BLS signatures, which is a pair of two related curves, `G1` and `G2`.

Filecoin uses `G1` for public keys, as G1 allows for a smaller representation of public keys, and `G2` for signatures. This implements the same design as ETH2, but contrasts with Zcash, which has signatures on `G1` and public keys on `G2`. However, unlike ETH2, which stores private keys in big-endian order, Filecoin stores and interprets private keys in little-endian order.

Public key addresses are often referred to by their shorthand, `f1` or `f3`.

## Actors

Actor addresses provide a way to create robust addresses for actors not associated with a public key. They are generated by taking a `sha256` hash of the output of the account creation. The ZH storage provider has the actor address `f2plku564ddywnmb5b2ky7dhk4mb6uacsxuuev3pi` and the ID address `f01248`.

Actor addresses are often referred to by their shorthand, `f2`.

## Extensible user-defined actors

Filecoin supports extensible, user-defined actor addresses through the `f4` address class, introduced in [fip-0048](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0048.md). The `f4` address class provides the following benefits to the network:

- A predictable addressing scheme to support interactions with addresses that do not yet exist on-chain.
- User-defined, custom addressing systems without extensive changes and network upgrades.
- Support for native addressing schemes from foreign runtimes such as the EVM.

An `f4` address is structured as `f4<address-manager-actor-id>f<new-actor-id>`, where `<address-manager-actor-id>` is the actor ID of the _address manager_, and `<new-actor-id>` is the arbitrary actor ID chosen by that actor. An _address manager_ is an actor that can create new actors and assign an `f4` address to the new actor.

{{< alert >}}
Currently, per [fip-0048](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0048.md), `f4` addresses may only be assigned by and in association with specific, built-in actors called _address managers_. Once users are able to deploy custom WebAssembly actors, this restriction will likely be relaxed, in a future FIP.
{{< /alert >}}

As an example: suppose an address manager has an actor ID (an `f0` address) `123`, and that address manager creates a new actor. Then, the `f4` address of the actor created by the address manager is `f4123fa3491xyz`, where `f4` is the address class, `123` is the actor ID of the address manager, `f` is a separator, and `a3491xyz` is the arbitrary `<new-actor-id>` chosen by that actor.
