---
title: "Accounts and assets"
description: "Everything you need to know about how accounts and assets are managed within the FVM. A lot of this information is identical to how accounts and assets are managed within the Filecoin network as a whole. However, there are some nuances."
lead: "Everything you need to know about how accounts and assets are managed within the FVM. A lot of this information is identical to how accounts and assets are managed within the Filecoin network as a whole. However, there are some nuances."
draft: false
images: []
type: docs
weight: 10
menu:
  build:
    parent: "build-concepts"
    identifier: "accounts-and-assets-3fbb8ytr2864t9fbs6t"
toc: true
aliases:
    - "/fvm/concepts/accounts-and-assets/"
---

{{< beta-warning >}}

In Filecoin, addresses are used to identify actors. 

Take a look at this short presentation by [@Stebalien](https://github.com/Stebalien) on Filecoin addressing.

<iframe src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/17ngqxflu9B-gBqVl--5KqVhXsTLhkWtJ/preview" width="100%" height="480" allow="autoplay"></iframe>

### Address Structure

All Filecoin addresses begin with an `f` to indicate the network (Filecoin), followed by any of the address prefix numbers listed below (`0`, `1`, `2`, `3`, `4`) to indicate the address type. There are five address types:

| Address prefix | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `0` | An ID address. |
| `1` | A [SECP256K1](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Secp256k1) public key address. |
| `2` | An actor address. |
| `3` | A [BLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BLS_digital_signature) public key address. |
| `4` | Extensible, user-defined actor addressess. |

### Address types in Filecoin 

#### ID addresses

All actors have a short integer assigned to them by `InitActor`, a unique actor that can create _new_ actors. This integer that gets assigned is the ID of that actor. An _ID address_ is an actor's ID prefixed with the network identifier and the address type.

Actor ID addresses are not _robust_, in the sense that they _do_ depend on chain state, and are defined on-chain by the `InitActor`. Additionally, actor IDs can change for a brief time after creation if the same ID is assigned to different actors on different forks. Actor ID addresses are quite similar to monotonically increasing numeric primary keys in a relational database. Thus, when a chain reorganization occurs (similar to a rollback in a SQL database), you can refer to the same ID for different rows. The [expected consensus](https://spec.filecoin.io/#section-algorithms.expected_consensus) algorithm will resolve the conflict. Once the state that defines a new ID reaches finality, no changes can occur, and the ID is bound to that actor forever.

Here's the structure for the mainnet burn account ID address `f099`:

```plaintext
  Address type
  |
f 0 9 9
|    |
|    Actor ID
|
Network identifier
```

ID addresses are often referred to by their shorthand `f0`.

### Public key addresses

Actors managed directly by users, like accounts, are derived from a public-private key pair. If you have access to a private key, you can sign messages sent from that actor. The public key is used to derive an address for the actor.

Public key addresses allow devices, like hardware wallets, to derive a valid Filecoin address for your account using just the public key. The device doesn't need to ask a remote node what your ID address is. Public key addresses provide a concise, safe, human-readable way to reference actors before the chain state is final. ID addresses are used as a space-efficient way to identify actors in the Filecoin chain state, where every byte matters.

Public key addresses are also referred to as _robust addresses_, as they do not depend on the Filecoin chain state, unlike [ID addresses](#id-addresses).

Filecoin supports two types of public key addresses:

- [`secp256k1` addresses](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Secp256k1) that begin with the prefix `f1`.
- [BLS addresses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BLS_digital_signature) that begin with the prefix `f3`.

Public key addresses are often referred to by their shorthand, `f1` or `f3`.

### Actor addresses

<!-- TODO: what is the account creation referenced here? Is there an example of generating this actor address within a terminal window? -->
Actor addresses provide a way to create robust addresses for actors not associated with a public key. They are generated by taking a `sha256` hash of the output of the account creation. The ZH storage provider has the actor address `f2plku564ddywnmb5b2ky7dhk4mb6uacsxuuev3pi` and the ID address `f01248`.

Actor addresses are often referred to by their shorthand `f2`.
<!-- END-TODO -->

<!-- TODO: decide if this section is necessary. It's pretty in-depth regarding key creation. Is this ever mentioned in the specs? If yes, I suggest we remove this section. -->
### BLS public key addresses

In addition to secp256k1 `f1` addresses, Filecoin supports BLS addresses, which begin with `f3`. Filecoin uses `curve bls12-381` for BLS signatures, which is a pair of two related curves, `G1` and `G2`. 

Filecoin uses `G1` for public keys, as G1 allows for a smaller representation of public keys, and `G2` for signatures. This implements the same design as ETH2, but contrasts with Zcash, which has signatures on `G1` and public keys on `G2`. However, unlike ETH2, which stores private keys in big-endian order, Filecoin stores and interprets private keys in little-endian order. 

BLS public key addresses are often referred to by their shorthand `f3`.

### Extensible user-defined actor addresses

Filecoin supports extensible, user-defined actor addresses through the `f4` address class, introduced in [fip-0048](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0048.md). The `f4` address class provides the following benefits to the network:

- A predictable addressing scheme to support interactions with addresses that do not yet exist on-chain.
- User-defined, custom addressing systems without extensive changes and network upgrades.
- Support for native addressing schemes from foreign runtimes (such as the EVM).

An `f4` address is structured as `f4{address-manager-actor-id}f`, where `{address-manager-actor-id}` is the actor ID of the _address manager_. An _address manager_ is a user-defined actor that can create new actors and assign an `f4` address to that actor. 

{{< alert >}}
**Note**

Currently, per [fip-0048](https://github.com/filecoin-project/FIPs/blob/master/FIPS/fip-0048.md), `f4` addresses may only be assigned by and in association with specific, built-in address managers. Once users are able to deploy custom WebAssembly actors, this restriction will likely be relaxed, in a future FIP. 
{{< /alert >}}


<!-- - How do I get FIL to test? Is there a faucet? -->
<!-- - Can I use Metamask? -->
<!-- - Do I need Filsnap? -->
<!-- - What is an F0 / F1 / F2 / F3 / F4 address? -->
<!-- - Do I need ETH to use FEVM? -->
<!-- - How do I get FIL -->
<!-- - What do addresses look like -->
